BIG DATA

DEFINITION
----------
1.Bigdata is all about data, huge volume of data.
2.10000+ Technologies(like hadoop and spark) is under bigdata.
3.Bigdata derived from data.
4.Data is a collection of information that can be stored and processed.
5.Data can be anything like letters, numbers, symbols, images, audio, video, files.
6.Data can be in anyform like raw, structured and unorganized.
7.When machine tries to store and process data more than its capacity, problem occurs that is called 
bigdata(problem data).
8.Small/Large amount of data which becomes problem to store/process is called bigdata.
9.Bigdata is not only for volume, we can use it to solve different probems in different usecases.
10.We can use any technology to solve problem, its not mandatory to use only bigdata technologies to solve. 
11.Bigdata has solution for all problems, it is an open source we can also propose a Technology(solution for a problem).
12.Bigdata is for purely data processing, data analytics, data storage, data testing, data visualization.

PROBLEMS IN DATA
----------------
Problems in data are infinity.
1.Volume - large amount of data (Eg:- A movie file size is 4.001GB storing in 4GB pendrive, don't have
 enough storage to store 1mb, that 1mb is bigdata because not able to store and process, If don't have 
 space for 1kb or 10000000TB to store and process is also called bigdata.)
 Companies process data in GB, TB, PB based on their projects/standards.
 Small comany used data in GBs (Large volume of data for their company standards).
 Medium comany used data in TBs (Large volume of data for their company standards). 
 Large comany used data in PBs (Large volume of data for their company standards).

2.Velocity - Speed in Transaction or transfering data (how fast the request is sent and getting back the response).
I'm doing an online payment its taking too much of time nearly 1hr to finish, I can't wait for 1hr so the  
delay Problem is not with the database or engine but with the transfering technology.

3.Variety - Structured(comma separated and tab sepearted), Semi-Structured(xml, json), 
UnStructured(audio, video, image) are varieties of data.

4.Value - Quality of the data.


DATA LAYERS
-----------
Bigdata has N data layers, each layers has n technologies/solution for problems.
1.Data storage - 500+ databases in Bigdata (NoSQL).
2.Data processing/analysis - 2000+ data processing/Analysis technolgies in Bigdata (Hadoop and Spark)
3.Data analytics (DS/AI/ML)
4.Data scheduling
5.Data testing
6.Data pipeline
7.Data Visualization (Tableau, clickview, microstatergy).


HADOOP
------
1.Hadoop Derived from 2 base papers GFS(Google File System) and GMR(Google Map Reduce)
2.Google released GFS in 2002 and GMR in 2004.
3.GFS is to store data distributedly and GMR is to process the data distributedly.
4.Apache Hadoop(GFS+GMR) was released in April 2006, created by Apache Software foundation based on a white 
paper written by Google in 2003 that described the Google File System (GFS) and the MapReduce programming model. 
5.Doug cutting is the father of Hadoop.
6.Hadoop is an open-source software framework for storing and processing big data.
7.Doug renamed GFS into Hadoop File System(HDFS) and GMR into MapReduce(MR).
8.Doug donated hadoop to Apache software foundation as an open source.
9.Hadoop is the first Hit project in Bigdata, used by many companies and funded to Doug.
10.Doug started a company "Cloudera" with his partners, multi billion startup company only for Bigdata Technology and solutions.
11.Apache/xyz won't give support for any open source projects, MNC use the product only when it has support. Individuals can use the project for POC(proof of concept) and understanding.
Third party will start a company, studies about the project, make a support team and give support(Adding Additional features like GUI, testing component, infrastucture, installation setup) 
for the product and releases as a new product, still the original developer has a co-ownership/partnership in that, because the new product is derived from old product.
the old product(Eg:- Hadoop) is an open source Hadoop and the new product(Eg:- Baby Hadoop) is enterprise Hadoop, because third party giving product support to MNC. MNC will pay for the third party who offered the product support.

















